This file will document large changes that anyone tracking development branches
should be aware of. This will also include things like dependency changes or
references to changes in other repositories. Updates are sorted by commit date
descending.

Author: apolkosnik
Date:   2016-08-06

    Added support for Mongoengine 0.10.x while allowing you to use currently
    supported version of mongoengine (0.10.x), in essence everything should
    continue to work.
    
    If you want to go with mongoengine 0.10.x, you'll need to upgrade via pip.
    
        pip install -U -r requirements.txt
    
    It will install Mongoengine 0.10.6 and Pymongo 3.2.2 and then
        also django_mongoengine from git.

Author: apolkosnik
Date:   2016-07-13

    Support for Impfuzzy has been added, see:
    https://github.com/JPCERTCC/aa-tools/tree/master/impfuzzy
    And of course you'll need to install pyimpfuzzy via pip
    In order to populate the hashes for our current sample set run the following:
        python manage.py upgrade -Ss

Author: mgoffin
Date:   2016-07-28

    Based on community feedback we've decided to change how Indicator Threat
    Type and Attack Type work. Now instead of it being a single static value
    which is used in determining duplicate indicators, they are now lists which
    are not involved in determining duplicates. Now, when adding an Indicator
    duplicates are once again determined based on type and value only. Threat
    and Attack Types will be combined with existing ones if an Indicator gets
    uploaded that would cause an existing indicator to get updated.

    This caused a schema migration. To update your indicators, you can run:

        python manage.py upgrade -si

    If you want to detect the duplicates created by having different Threat or
    Attack Types, you can run the following aggregation in mongo shell:

        db.indicators.aggregate({$group:{_id:"$value",count:{$sum :1}}},
                                {$project:{_id:0, val:"$_id", count:1}},
                                {$match:{$count: {$gt: 1}}})

    This will show you the value of the Indicator and the count of duplicates.
    You can then search in the UI using a global search like:

        type:indicator field:value foo

    Where "foo" is the duplicate value returned in the aggregation results. You
    can decide how you want to resolve the conflicts before removing the
    duplicates.

    If you use the API to update indicators, note that the actions have now
    changed to "modify_attack_types" and "modify_threat_types" and take the
    parameter "attack_types" and "threat_types" respectively. Note that using
    these calls will *replace* the existing types there, so make sure to provide
    the complete list you want to be there after the update is made.

Author: apolkosnik
Date:   2016-02-03

    You can run your CRITs-master on Django 1.7 with the latest commit!
    In order to run on 1.7 you'll have to add an one-liner to forms.py in your
    custom-made services.
    You'll need to add the following line:
        kwargs.setdefault('label_suffix', ':')
    before every occurrence of the following:
        super(YourCustomServiceConfigForm, self).__init__(*args, **kwargs)
    in forms.py inside your custom-made services.
    
    For CRITs to run on Django 1.7 you also need to update the following:
    django-tastypie==0.12.2
    django-tastypie-mongoengine==0.4.6

Author: mgoffin
Date: 2015-11-19

    Actions have several changes.

    1) Actions are now a feature of all TLOs, not just indicators.
    2) Actions can be modified to specify a set of TLOs they apply to.

        NOTE: Without setting this for existing Actions, none of them will show
        up in the dropdown menu when adding an Action.

    3) Actions can now set up preferred criteria. This allows you to specify the
    conditions which make this Action preferred for a given TLO.
        When editing an Action you will see a "Preferred" section. This section
        is a comma-separated list of TLO Type, Field Name, and Value. Newlines
        will separate different conditions. Conditions are an "OR".
        For example: Indicator, ind_type, Domain
            This will be a preferred action for any Indicator with a type of
            Domain.

Author: dreardon
Date: 2015-11-18
    The new Signature TLO has two backend reference lists which can be managed
    by an Administrator in the Control Panel.
        - The Data Type drop-down values that are available can be added to and disabled
        just like other reference values (Raw Data Types, etc.) in the Control Panel
        under "Signature Types"
        - The Signature Type Dependency list featured in the type-ahead component
        can also be added to and managed in the Control Panel under "Signature Dependency".
        Unlike most other Control Panel lists, this list allows entries to be deleted so
        that this list doesn't become cumbersome over time.

Author: apolkosnik
Date: 2015-08-31

    Unzip functionality was set up to use the 7za rather than 7z. 7z suports
    much wider variety of formats. The defaults are changed for new installs,
    for existing installs just change the filename from  7za to 7z in 
    CRITs Control Panel -> SYSTEM -> General -> "Zip7 path:".
    7z comes with p7zip-plugins on RHEL/Centos, on Ubuntu it's in p7zip-full.

Author: mgoffin
Date: 2015-06-30

    CybOX and STIX have been completely removed from core. There was too much
    arguing and back-and-forth between the pro-standards and anti-standards
    community members for it to stay as it is. Half of the people didn't want to
    be forced to use them at all while the other half was not satisfied at the
    level of feature parity and compatibility CRITs had with the standards.

    The compromise that we came up with is to move any and all features that
    involved CybOX/STIX over to the TAXII Service. That way if you use core you
    are not required to interact or use the standards, but if you do want them
    you can leverage the import/export capabilities via an optional service.

    The following changes have taken place:

        - CRITs has its own set of vocabularies for things like Event Type,
          Relationships, Objects, Indicators, Actors, etc. Some of the values
          might be the same, similar, or different than what was there before
          depending on if those values made sense.
            - We are not migrating old values and leaving the mapping of old
              values to new ones up to organizations to handle. Due to the
              confusion of what some of the old CybOX/STIX values meant, some
              people used them in different ways and we didn't want to make
              assumptions.
        - STIX Import is gone and now a part of the TAXII Service. If you use
          the TAXII service it can be found in the Nav Menu under "Services".
        - Exporting a TLO in STIX format requires the TAXII Service's "Preview"
          feature.
        - The "Standards" API is gone but will work again if you include the
          TAXII Service which extends the API.
        - The TAXII Service has a new set of mappings to go from
          CRITs->Standards->CRITs for the new vocabularies. It is less robust
          than before but we are leaving it this way so people can submit PRs
          for expanded support.
        - Downloading a TLO no longer provides a STIX option. It is now
          JSON-based.
        - If you wish to upload a file as an Object, use the "File Upload"
          Object Type.
        - Indicators now have a "Threat Type" and "Attack Type" to provide more
          context into what the Indicator means.
        - The UI will now prevent you from trying to create an Indicator out of
          an existing Object if there is no matching Indicator Type.
        - If you had custom vocabulary additions before, we no longer use the
          database to query for vocabulary values. They are now located in the
          "vocabulary" directory of the project. You can add your vocabulary
          items there as necessary and handle merge conflicts if needed.

    This separation should put CRITs in the right position. We want to keep
    CRITs as a collaborative analyst environment, not a sharing platform. If you
    want to share by extending it with services that's excellent! CybOX and STIX
    support can be expanded upon and rev'd more frequently in the TAXII Service
    so people don't have to wait for new CRITs releases to get access to newer
    versions of the standards. The core developers don't use the standards so
    they are looking to the community to contribute enhancements to CybOX/STIX
    support in the TAXII Service if it is something they need/want.

    Here an examples of a query you can perform to update the values in
    your database to align with the new vocabulary:

    db.indicators.update({'type': 'Address - ipv4-addr'}, {$set: {'type': 'IPv4
    Address'}}, {'multi': 1})


Author: brlogan
Date: 2015-05-07

    Added support for sharing String Indicators via STIX. Because there is no
    generic String type in CybOX, the CybOX Custom object must be used. This
    requries updating python-stix and python-cybox.

    Updated versions are:
        cybox-2.1.0.11
        stix-1.1.1.5

Author: wxs
Date:   2015-05-06

    The add_relationship() function has been changed. If you have any place
    using it with the rel_id and type_ arguments you need to change to pass
    in rel_item. For more details please see this commit:

    e9f0a6e545ec18e8f951b4709aab8fd06b973537

Author: wxs
Date:   2015-05-06

    Backdoor and Exploit TLOs have been added to CRITs. This provides for
    better tracking of TTPs over time. The old "exploits" collection will need
    to be removed first by running the following from a mongo shell:

    db.exploits.drop()

    If you have existing samples with backdoor or exploit information you can
    migrate these to new objects in the new collections using:

    python manage.py upgrade -S

    The above will create new objects in the collections for each exploit and
    backdoor attribute of a Sample, and relate the Sample to them. It will also
    create indexes for the new "backdoors" and "exploits" collection.

    Finally, you can drop the backdoor_details and exploit_details collections
    by running the following from a mongo shell:

    db.backdoor_details.drop()
    db.exploit_details.drop()

Author: mgoffin
Date:   2015-04-28

    Locations has been added to CRITs. This is a new feature for each TLO.
    Locations allows you to track where a TLO has been seen originating from as
    well as destined to. Uniqueness of a location entry is based on a
    combination of its type, location, and date of entry. This allows you to
    have multiple instances of originating from the same place. Each location
    comes with an optional description as well as optional lat/long.

    In order for this to work you will need to populate your system with
    locations to choose. Locations are based on country/territory. You can add
    them by running the following:

        python manage.py create_locations

Author: apolkosnik
Date:   2015-04-17

    Bundled version of OleFileIO_PL has been removed and replaced with
    system-installed olefile >= 0.40. In order to get it working one needs to
    install olefile module by either building it and installing from
    source (https://pypi.python.org/pypi/olefile) download the zip, unzip, cd
    to the extracted folder and run:

        python setup build & sudo python setup.py install

    or through pip:

        pip install olefile

Author: wxs
Date:   2015-01-17

    Notifications had an incorrect index set on them, causing them not to
    expire after 30 days. This can be fixed by executing the following command
    from a mongo shell:

    db.notifications.ensureIndex({"date": 1}, {expireAfterSeconds: 2592000, background: true})

Author: wxs
Date:   2014-12-30

    Domains got an overhaul to split the WHOIS feature out to a service. You
    will need to migrate all your domains. This can be done with:

    python manage.py upgrade -D

    If you do not have any WHOIS information for existing domains in your
    database you can ignore this update. If you do have WHOIS information a
    script has been provided which will run the WHOIS service with default
    configuration against all domains which have WHOIS information already. It
    is recommended that you use this script to create service analysis results
    for these domains.

    The WHOIS service supports three different query modes: live, pydat and
    domaintools. If you wish to use the domaintools or pydat modes you must
    configure the service first and then specify your runtime options to the
    migrate script using the -c option.

    If you only want to do live queries then run this:

    python manage.py runscript whois_service migrate -- -v

    If you want to do a pydat lookup then run this:

    python manage.py runscript whois_service migrate -- -v -c "{'pydat_query': True}"

    If you want to do a domaintools lookup then run this:

    python manage.py runscript whois_service migrate -- -v -c "{'dt_query': True}"
    The config options can be combined too. So all three modes would be:

    "{'dt_query': True, 'pydat_query': True, 'live_query': True}"

    Please use the -h argument to the script to get extra help.

Author: dsnellgrove
Date:   2014-10-30

    The python library "ushlex" has been added as a dependency and will need to
    be installed.

Author: dbuchta
Date:   2014-10-14

    Dashboards are now saved objects in the db containing a list of tables 
    affiliated with it. They also have a name and have the option to be 
    public. These can all by changed on the Dashboard Configurations page
    although only an admin can make a dashboard public. When a user other
    then the original creator saves a public dashboard, it creates a clone
    with their own customization applied and the public one is removed
    from the user's list of dashboards. In order to revert the clone back to 
    the public, simply delete it and public one will show again. Users also 
    have the choice of picking their default dashboard from the Dashboard 
    Configurations page.
    
    A key feature to these new dashboards are users having the ability to save
    their favorite searches. This can be done by entering your search criteria 
    in the Global Quick Search and clicking the "Configure for Dashboard" button
    on the search results page. Once clicked, you will be redirected to another
    page where you can customize the table to your liking, name it, and choose 
    which dashboard to pin it to, or to  create a new one.
    
    In order for the dashboard to work correctly, the initial default dashboard
    must be created in the database. This can be done with the following 
    management command:
    
        python manage.py create_default_dashboard
        
Author: mgoffin
Date:   2014-10-04

    We have removed the requirement to use /crits/ when using Apache. It will
    now function with a similar URL as runserver. This removes backwards
    compatibility with old links, but if you wish to make them work, you can use
    your own custom Apache config to redirect /crits/ to /.

    Please reference the example Apache config files in the extras folder for
    how to configure Apache to work with CRITs.

Author: mgoffin
Date:   2014-09-25

    There is a drastic change to Analysis Results. Historically, analysis
    results were stored within the document of the TLO they were derived from.
    This was fine but as time went on more services were developed which had
    more robust output. Each TLO is bound by MongoDBs 16MB max document size. As
    services are being executed they are consuming part of that 16MB for the
    TLO. This results in contention for space and has sometimes led to documents
    which can no longer be modified due to hitting the cap.

    The change that has been implemented is to move all Analysis Results to
    their own collection. This gives service developers almost 16MB of space
    dedicated to the results their service output. There is no more contention
    with other service output to deal with. Each execution of a service will
    have its own document in the collection making it easier to work with.

    With this change you will need to run some commands:

    In mongo shell:
        use crits
        db.analysis_results.ensureIndex({'service_name': 1}, {'background': true})
        db.analysis_results.ensureIndex({'object_type': 1}, {'background': true})
        db.analysis_results.ensureIndex({'object_id': 1}, {'background': true})

    If you run a clustered database you'll also need to run:
        use admin
        db.runCommand({shardcollection:"crits.analysis_results",key:{"object_id":1}})

    Once the indexes (and sharding if applicable) are set, you can then begin
    migrating your Analysis Results to the new collection. This can be skipped
    if you wish to have them migrated as you view content through the interface
    but keep in mind search results will not be accurate until all of them are
    moved.

    To migrate the Analysis Results, you can run the following management
    command:

        python manage.py upgrade -as

    You can use -h to get more information, but this tells the command to skip
    preparation (there is no need to do this at this time) and to upgrade all
    documents in all collections. You can use the individual options to migrate
    a collection at a time (this is useful if you have bad data in your database
    that you need to hunt down as the migration happens).

    After everything is migrated and verified, if you want to ensure all of the
    old analysis results were cleaned up, you can run the following in mongo
    shell for each TLO collection (replace "collection" with the collection you
    wish to update):

    db.collection.update({}, {$unset: {'unsupported_attrs.analysis': 1}}, {'multi': true})

    There is a new Nav Menu option under Services called "Analysis Results" to
    get to the jTable listing of the results.

Author: wxs
Date:   2014-08-13

    Services are getting an overhaul. They no longer use the Context concept.
    Contexts existed from a time before we had real objects to pass around.
    Now that we have real objects Contexts are no longer needed and are a
    layer of indirection we can do without.

    If you are a service author you need to update your code to work on an
    object.

    Services have also received a major rewrite in how they are configured
    and run. The wiki page will be updated accordingly.

Author: mgoffin
Date:   2014-09-03

    The way we handle URLs is changing drastically. Now, each TLO and major
    section of CRITs is going to handle its own urls.py file. They are imported
    in the normal `crits/urls.py` file. If you've made any changes to your
    urls.py file, you will need to determine the correct new location and adjust
    accordingly.

    This change was made because we exceeded the 255 argument limit when trying
    to jam them all into one file.

Author: mgoffin
Date:   2014-09-02

    Actors are a new TLO that come with a lot of attribution content. In order
    to get Actors working, you will need to populate your database with several
    things:

        python manage.py create_actors_content

    That will populate the available Threat Types, Motivations, Sophistications,
    and Intended Effects from STIX into your database to make available.

    You will also need to add some Actor Identifier Types to your system. You
    can do this via the Control Panel or under "Add New Item". Once you have one
    or more of these set, you can add Actor Identifiers. More information on
    Actors, Actor Identifiers, etc. can be found on the wiki.

Author: mgoffin
Date:   2014-08-13

    The Sample API has been updated. The Method will default to an empty string
    now to stay in-line with the behavior of the backend handler function. Also,
    parent_md5 is now related_md5 as that option was renamed in the same
    function. Expanded to include related_id and related_type so you can relate
    the Sample to more than just another Sample (common case an Email). Be aware
    if you use this feature to make the appropriate changes.

Author: mgoffin
Date:   2014-08-12

    Updated DEPENDENCIES. We are now supporting Django 1.6.5 (in preparation for
    their 1.7 release), MongoDB 2.6.4, and PyMongo 2.7.2. I also bumped dateutil
    and Yara to 2.1.0 so people using the service push to upgrade and stay on
    the latest code base (new features which will help us enhance the service).

Author: mgoffin
Date:   2014-07-16

    The "adduser" management command has been renamed to the "users" management
    command. It's been expanded past just adding users. You can now add and edit
    users. The only thing this doesn't allow you to do is assign sources,
    subscriptions, favorites, or alter user preferences. Please review the new
    list of arguments.

Author: mgoffin
Date: 2014-06-26

    Adding a "Sectors" feature. This will allow you to track which sector(s) a
    top-level object pertains to. The available sectors list is based off of the
    DHS Critical Infrastructure Sectors list and cannot be modified through the
    interface (to allow sharing between instances).

    You will need to run the following to populate the database with the sector
    list:

        python manage.py create_sectors

    There is also a management command to update counts if they get out of whack
    for some reason:

        python manage.py sector_counts

Author: ssnow
Date: 2014-06-23

    Updating CRITs to expand the TAXII service. Within this repository, this
    involves creating a to_stix method for crits objects within
    crits_mongoengine.py. This method will need to be updated as more crits
    objects can be converted into the STIX standard and potentially shared
    via TAXII.

    Related: updating STIX to v1.1.1.0 and CybOX to 2.1.0.5.

Author: mgoffin
Date: 2014-06-06

    Adding in the start of the Screenshot storage feature. This comes with a
    dependency on python's pillow (v 2.4.0) library. It is also adding an index.
    It is:

    db.screenshots.ensureIndex({'tags': 1}, {'background': true})

    It is possible, but not yet decided, that the GridFS portion of this
    collection should be sharded. Going to think about that a bit while the
    feature matures.

Author: mgoffin
Date:  2014-05-15

    Notifications are getting an overhaul. They are now stored in their own
    separate collection instead of being mixed in with comment and embedded in a
    user's document.

    There is one document per notification, and it contains a list of users that
    notification pertains to.

    The generate_notifications management script has two jobs now:

        - send out email notifications to users who wish to receive them.
        - delete notifications if all of the users it pertains to have been
          notified.

    The create_indexes management command has been updated to include indexes
    for notifications.

        db.notifications.ensureIndex({'users': 1}, {'background': true})
        db.notifications.ensureIndex({'obj_id': 1},
                                     {'background': true,
                                      'expireAfterSeconds': 2592000})

    NOTE: There is an expiration index which is set for 30 days. Notifications
    which have been in the database for 30 days will automatically get deleted
    by MongoDB! If you wish to keep them around indefinitely or want to adjust
    the length of time, please manually generate the indexes or alter your
    create_indexes management script accordingly.

    If you wish to clean up any existing notifications, you'll need to look at
    the following MongoDB commands:

    - User documents which contain notifications:
        db.users.update({}, {$unset: {'notifications': 1}}, {'multi': 1})
        db.users.update({},
                        {$unset: {'unsupported_attrs.notifications': 1}},
                        {'multi': 1})
    - Existing notifications in the comments collection:
        db.comments.remove({'type': 'notification'}, {'multi': 1})

Author: apolkosnik
Date:   2014-04-28

    Some LDAP servers might set an urgent flag on some of their messages, and
    cause python-ldap to throw an exception, and not allow an user to log-in.
    This happens with certain Oracle based LDAP servers, and the known solution
    is to import ldap.controls.pwdpolicy.
    
    ldap.controls.pwdpolicy module is not distributed before 2.4.15, and with
    prior version you wil get a message in you crits log:
    "INFO <date> <time> crits.core.user ldap.controls.pwdpolicy not present."

Author: mgoffin
Date:   2014-04-17

    To facilitate the API and to fix some issues, we will now require new
    versions of Django, MongoDB, MongoEngine, and PyMongo. All of the versions
    are available in the DEPENDENCIES file.

    Also, there is an issue with chunk collection indexes. There is a change to
    the Python MongoDB driver which does a sanity check for the chunks index.
    The options for the index differ from the ones we used in create_indexes
    (specifically we added background=true, they did not and require
    unique=true). I have updated create_indexes to support the proper format.
    For anyone with an existing database, you will need to drop and recreate the
    indexes for the objects, sample, and pcaps chunks collections. From mongo
    shell, you can run the following:

    db.objects.chunks.dropIndex({'files_id': 1,'n': 1})
    db.pcaps.chunks.dropIndex({'files_id': 1,'n': 1})
    db.sample.chunks.dropIndex({'files_id': 1,'n': 1})
    db.objects.chunks.ensureIndex( { files_id: 1, n: 1 }, { unique: true } );
    db.pcaps.chunks.ensureIndex( { files_id: 1, n: 1 }, { unique: true } );
    db.sample.chunks.ensureIndex( { files_id: 1, n: 1 }, { unique: true } );

Author: mgoffin
Date: 2014-04-04

    In order to facilitate API Key authorization when using Apache with
    mod_wsgi, you will need to add "WSGIPassAuthorization On" to your Apache
    configuration.

Author: mgoffin
Date:   2014-04-04

    It has come to our attention that there has been some issues with memory
    consumption and lots of swapping since the upgrade to 3.0. This is a result
    of a default change in MongoEngine which uses a cached QuerySet. By default
    it will store the results of each query in memory so multiple iterations of
    the results will not hammer the database. This wound up improving
    performance but at the cost of more significant memory requirements.

    The community has given MongoEngine feedback and in a future version they
    plan on making the default a non-caching QuerySet, but provide the ability
    to cache if you wish to.

    Until such a time comes and we can properly optimize our queries between
    those two options, we have decided to expose a Control Panel option which
    will determine whether or not we should be caching all queries globally.
    By default this option is off so there will be no caching. This means you
    might see slightly slower response times but you'll improve memory/swap
    issues. If you have the hardware and would prefer the performance
    improvements of the query caching, you can enable this in the Control Panel
    and restart your web server.

Author: wxs
Date:   2014-02-03

    The SECRET_KEY setting is no longer stored in the config. It is now
    required that you set that in crits/config/database.py. DO NOT EDIT
    crits/config/database_example.py to make this change. Instead, please
    make copy database_example.py to database.py and put your secret key
    there.

Author: wxs
Date:   2014-01-27

    You need to migrate your samples.

    The 'hashes' sub-document has been removed and individual hashes are
    now top-level objects. Please see the "Sample Migration" section in
    release_notes/3.0.txt for details information.

Author: mgoffin
Date:   2013-01-22

    There has been a change to the create_indexes management script.
    Historically we made a lot of indexes "sparse". These indexes only included
    documents which has a value defined in the indexed field. The issue with
    this now is that our search and sorting capabilities have been enhanced. We
    are trying to search and sort and are coming up with subsets of results due
    to sorting on fields which are sparse indexed. This removes a lot of
    relevent documents from the results.

    The change to create_indexes removes all sparse indexes from being created.
    This will make the index size requirements a little larger, but not anything
    current servers shouldn't be able to handle. If you already have indexes
    made and try to run this script, MongoDB will ignore the creation because an
    index on that field already exists. You will need to manually drop the
    sparse indexes and then use this script to recreate them.

    This is not a requirement for CRITs to continue functioning, but if you
    happen to notice frequent issues with sorting removing some search results,
    this will be your fix.


Author: inray
Date: 2013-01-22

    The XFrameOptionsMiddleware has been added which is used by Django to help
    prevent clickjacking attacks.  This adds the X-Frame-Options HTTP header
    to all outgoing HTTP Responses.  The header restricts the page from being
    loaded within an IFRAME.  Default policy is SAMEORIGIN which allows viewing
    the Control Panel pages.  Deployments where CRITs is loaded inside an
    IFRAME may use the ALLOW-FROM <URI> policy to allow loading CRITs within
    a frame as long as the top-level browsing context is the same as the
    supplied URI.

    See these articles for details:
    http://blogs.msdn.com/b/ieinternals/archive/2010/03/30/combating-clickjacking-with-x-frame-options.aspx
    https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/HTTP/X-Frame-Options

Author: mgoffin
Date:   2013-12-12

    There are two new dependencies if you want to generate a QR Code on the
    login page for users who are settings up TOTP. You can install them with:

        sudo pip install qrcode
        sudo pip install pillow

    If you do not install these dependencies, users will still get their string
    to setup their authenticator, but will have to manually enter it.

    Also, the Nav menu on the login screen has been removed. Since it only
    contained a link to the password reset page, I included that link near the
    login form on the page instead.

Author: bdray
Date:   2013-12-10

    An effort that started out mainly to extract the dialogs from the core base
    templates led to a fairly lengthy overhaul of many of the dialogs and
    supporting javascript behind them (#921).  The initial intent was to reduce
    the size of the base template given that in any given "load" of a page
    view, you are likely to only use a few of the dialogs, so now most dialogs
    are loaded on demand when you request them.  Future work will add some
    caching in to make this even more performant, but this effort brings us
    closer to that and streamlined a lot of JS.

    For developers, dialogs are currently structured in "mini templates"
    located in the templates/dialogs/ folder.  These dialogs are served by the
    get_dialog function.  Client side, two new JS modules have been introduced
    to make working with them easier.  The first of these modules handles the
    "lazy loading", jquery.ui.dialog-lazy.js -- this module allows you to
    define your dialog mostly as normal, but an added 'href' option is passed
    to the the Dialog function which references the mentioned view.  When a
    user clicks to open the dialog it is ajax fetched and displayed.

    A second module, jquery.ui.dialog-persona adds a built-in option
    flexibility quality called "personas" onto the dialog constructs, enabling
    the easy ability for the same dialog template/form to be reused in multiple
    ways.  For example the 'new' persona can be used to add new entries, and
    the 'update' persona can be used to make changes to existing ones.
    Comments added a 'reply' persona to handle that use case.  By simply
    defining these personas on the dialog and where the dialogClick happens,
    different titles, button labels, setup callback and submit actions can be
    changed to permit this "multi-personality" flexibility.

    As hinted above, opening dialogs is also standardized across the board.
    There are two new classes, 'dialogClick' and 'deleteClick' that were added
    to open up any dialog of the respective type.  So a lot of "on click binding"
    can be alleviated by simply applying the right class.  These functions look for
    additional params on the clicked element to understand the persona and
    dialog they are to open.

    Much of the support code for dialogs has been moved into the dialogs.js
    file, or the respective "apps" file if it is not globally required.  Where
    possible, the functionality has been refactored to support multiple types
    of dialogs with the same backend functions.  Additional work could be done
    to refactor this code in the future.  For example, a lot of code in the
    global namespace could be localized and "contained" to permit both clean
    interfaces as well as possibly enable focused JS unit testing in the future.

    Establishing what dialogs are available also follows a new standardized
    pattern.  You can see this pattern in dialogs.js where stdDialogs,
    fileDialogs, commentsDialogs etc are all defined.  They include the special
    parameters relative to the given dialog, but are essentially all built from
    the stdDialog and stdPersona functions that provide the base functionality
    for all dialogs while allowing you to overlay "specific" options easily.
    If dialogs are specific to certain apps or views, we can save some
    initialization code by only including those in the respective apps JS file
    where "localDialogs" is defined.


Author: mgoffin
Date:   2013-11-19

    With the changes to the directory structure to be more compliant with newer
    versions of Django, this allows us to simplify and use a more default
    django.wsgi file. I have removed the extra crud from that file, but it
    results in the requirement to add the WSGIPythonPath to the Apache config
    files. I have made those changes in our example files, but be aware that you
    will need to add the following line to your httpd.conf (Unbuntu) or your
    ssl.conf file (RHEL):

        WSGIPythonPath /data/crits

    Of course, adjust that line according to your installation if you've
    customized anything.

Author: inray
Date:   2013-10-22

    The directory structure has been updated to stay compatible with newer
    version of Django (1.4+).  The change involved moving most CRITs code to a 
    subdirectory called 'crits' and pointing the configuration and management
    files to the new directory.  The 'DocumentRoot' configuration option is
    the only change required to be made on a normal CRITs installation and is
    located in the Apache configuration files.  You must ensure the Apache
    configuration is updated with the DocumentRoot directive pointing to the
    new path: '/data/crits/crits/extras/www'.

Author: mgoffin
Date:   2013-10-10

    Scripts executed using the `runscript` management command will now require
    authentication against CRITs in order to run. That means you will need a
    valid CRITs login to run scripts. This provides some benefits like auditing
    activity and limiting resulting content based on ACLs (of course this
    doesn't stop people from altering the scripts to bypass this if they have
    access to do so).

    There are several ways to authenticate with `runscript`. One way is doing
    nothing and it will prompt you for a username and password (neither one will
    show the characters as you type). Another way is to use the -u (username)
    and -p (password) options. If you omit one of those it will prompt for the
    missing one. The final way is to use the -e (environ-auth) option. This will
    look for a CRITS_USER and CRITS_PASSWORD environment variable and use those
    to authenticate. Again, if one or more is missing, it will prompt you to
    provide that information. The -e option overrides using the -u or -p option.

    Hopefully this combination of authentication options will provide enough
    ways for people to continue using these scripts in automated tasks. If you
    are currently using these scripts in an automated fashion, note that you
    will need to alter how you execute them. Also if you have any custom scripts
    that leverage runscript, note that you will need to adjust your scripts
    `__init__` method to take a 'username' argument.

Commit: 3d8cc17923fd8dbfd583c67cda782e97bf6bbec4
Author: mgoffin
Date:   2013-09-25

    Certificates have been added as a top-level object. They act very similar to
    PCAPs where there's no metadata extracted from the contents, but they are
    Services-enabled so people can write their own tools and start
    searching/pivoting off the metadata they create.

Commit: fa263d493905a05912102d5e1fff9e627e6a7982
Author: mgoffin
Date:   2013-09-25

    There is a new Control Panel option called "Secure Cookie". It's a Boolean
    value which sets a template variable "secure_cookie" to "True" or "False".
    This can be used by developers to determine if they should be using a cookie
    in a secure or insecure manner. This defaults to "True".

    If you are using the clipboard feature and it seems to not be working, you
    might want to check to ensure that you've set this value properly.

Commit: 979fb5127a50aad26c875518758e3f8404bf3f19
Author: mgoffin
Date:   2013-09-17

    I created an AuditLog class. This class provides the standard structure for
    existing documents in the audit_log collection, and should be used in the
    future for any audit logging. The dates in the database for current audit
    logs were stored as strings. I removed the old prep contents and added a
    migration which converts them all to ISODate. You will need to run the
    following to migrate the dates:

        pythong manage.py prep

    Currently the only thing we read audit_log documents for is determining the
    recent samples on the profile page.

Author: mgoffin
Date:   2013-08-21

    Django 1.5 introduced an ALLOWED_HOSTS list in settings.py. This is required
    to be populated if you set DEBUG to False. Since we did not include this
    already, anyone who sets DEBUG to False and restarts their web server will
    get 500 errors. We have added it and set the default to ['*'] which
    basically makes DEBUG a worthless setting. This is intentional so by default
    anyone can get CRITs running (we can't possibly predict the hostnames of the
    servers people run CRITs on or the URLs they will use to contact it, so this
    seems like a sane default).

    However, the installation process will require that you use setconfig to set
    ALLOWED_HOSTS to a valid value in the database which will override the
    default. Also, you can set this via the UI if you plan on changing DEBUG to
    False.

    When you update your code, please run the following command:

        python manage.py setconfig allowed_hosts "foo"

    Where "foo" is the host/domain name or list of names that your site will
    serve. For more information on this, please visit the following URL:

    https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.5/ref/settings/#std%3asetting-ALLOWED_HOSTS

Commit: 827506c3f1e04e7d3f250ec61292baa9c325b372 (crits_dependencies)
Author: wxs
Date:   2013-08-02

    The dependencies for supporting standards have been updated. The new
    versions should improve peroformance when handling large XML files.

    Updated versions are:

        cybox-2.0.0b6
        stix-1.0.0a7
        libtaxii-1.0.105

Commit: 8a11893d0aaaf5a1c111e946dfca2f654099b35b
Author: wxs
Date:   2013-07-29

    We now have beta support for using Amazon S3 support. To enable this please
    read the changes to config/database_example.py (look for "S3") and
    make the corresponding changes in config/database.py.

    If you choose to use S3 please note that it does require the boto package
    be installed, which is available at https://github.com/boto/boto.

Author: mgoffin
Date:   2013-07-24

    There is no longer a requirement on a secondary database for authentication
    and session management. All of this is being done in MongoDB. Before moving
    to this code, however, you need to get and run the migrate_users management
    script. This needs to be done with your secondary database and
    settings/custom_settings in-tact. After the user have been migrated into
    MongoDB you can then update to this code.

        python manage.py migrate_users

    The only config file now to worry about is `config/database.py` which only
    contains the MongoDB connection information.

Author: mgoffin
Date:   2013-07-23

    Updated dependency requirements to Django 1.5 and MongoEngine 0.8.3. The
    modifications necessary for this aren't 100% complete, so these haven't been
    added to the crits_dependencies repository. I also haven't updated the
    services which the necessary changes to their forms.py files for using in
    Django 1.5.

Commit: b2c9846bca48248c040129893728639bc105ffd8
Author: mgoffin
Date:   2013-07-16

    Event Types are now driven by standards. We have removed the ability to add
    new ones from the interface. You will need to run the following to get the
    new Event Types into your db:

        python manage.py create_event_types

    Also, if you have Events in your system which have the old Event Types that
    came with CRITs, the prep management command has been modified to migrate
    them to the appropriate standards version. You can rerun the prep script to
    get these migrated, or do so by hand if you have only a few to take care of.

Commit: feb27c4b34721b705802bfe7459846f5e736c6fa
Author: mgoffin
Date:   2013-07-16

    The 'scripts' directory has been removed from core and added to the
    crits_services repository under 'crits_scripts'. If you were using the
    mapreduces or notifications cronjob scripts, you will need to change them to
    run like this:

        python manage.py mapreduces
        python manage.py generate_notifications

    The 'mongo' directory which was in 'scripts' has been moved to the 'contrib'
    directory.
